# Anthony Hill

<meta property="og:description" content="Anthony Hill was a DTX contractor and former soldier who spearheaded the Westcolumn Mountain Tunneling Project in 1546 OA.">

> *Both workers and soldiers die every day, but soldiers get memorials. I wake up every day and choose the life of the latter. Military-man to military-man, if you don't know which one you want to be then you'd best get your priorities straight.*  
> -Anthony Hill

Anthony Hill was a [DTX](../../organizations/other/dtx.md) contractor and former soldier who spearheaded the Westcolumn Mountain Tunneling Project in [1546 OA](../../calendar.md#reckoning). He was exceptionally charismatic, and would give the impression of someone easygoing and earnest. He saw anyone he couldn't charm as a potential threat, and would quickly resort to intimidation and brutality in order to maintain social dominance. As a leader, he heavily relied on fascist rhetoric and propaganda, particularly by causing conflict and then framing a chosen side as the aggressor in order to unify an opposition. He idealized power as a measurement of virtue, and saw those lacking as inferior. Since leaving the [United Daithia](../../organizations/nations/united-daithia.md) army, he envisioned the nation of Formicia, and thought the [western frontier](../../geography/continents/daithia.md#western-frontier) to be the perfect location to build it. Upon encountering the [stewards](../../organizations/other/stewards.md), Hill worked on solidifying power on the western frontier and propagandized himself as a leader against the "cultist" threat. [The Parados Crusade](../../organizations/other/stewards.md#major-factions) was the only group they had encountered, but Hill painted anyone not from a known nation as a dangerous cultist, giving free reign to conquer the western frontier and kill anyone already living there.